=head1 Crossfire+ Command ListingX<command>

=head2 accept-invitation

Accepts an invitation previously issued by another player using the invite
command. This will transfer you to the location you were invited to.

=head2 afk

Puts you into AFK (Away From Keyboard) mode. This can be used when you
are away for some time but not long enough to log off. It will not save
you from starvation and will merely list you as AFK in the user list.

=head2 apply

Apply applies an object.

If no options are given, it applies an object you are standing on.

If an object name is given, it will apply/unapply that object (toggle)

Extra options to apply:

   -a   Always applies the object
   -u   Always unapplies the object.

These two options disable the toggling feature.

=head2 X<applymode>applymode (nochoice|never|always)

Applymode controls what happens when you are equipping something that would
require something else to be unequipped.

The options are:

=over 4

=item B<nochoice>

In this case, if there is no choice for the item(s) being removed in order
to equip your new item. An example of this is a wand - there can only be
one other item needed to be unequipped for the new item to be equipped.
Note that in the case of two handed objects, like bows, it can result in
two (or more) items being unequipped to equip your new item.

=item B<never>

In this case, it will never unequip something for you. It will instead
tell you want you need to unequip - this can be a list of many objects.

=item B<always>

This will unequip whatever is needed to equip your new item.

=back

An example of how the above works:

If your character currently has two rings, and tries to equip a third, the
B<nochoice> mode will print the two rings you currently have equipped. The
B<always> mode will unequip one of the rings in your inventory. The ring
unequipped is fairly indeterminate - it depends on how the server has
ordered your inventory (which is not the same as the order your window
displays).

If your character is currently wearing a suit of armor, and you try to
equip another suit, both B<nochoice> and B<always> will cause the new suit
to get equipped.

See L<apply|command/apply>.

=head2 body

Shows how much you are wielding on certain bodyparts. For example as
fireborn, you have 4 fingers to put rings on. If you have 3 rings on it will
say: "on your finger  3 1", meaning you have 3 fingers full and one free.

=head2 X<bowmode>bowmode (normal|threewide|spreadshot|bestarrow|.*)

Bowmode controls how you will fire arrows and bolts.

The options are:

=over 4

=item B<normal>

As you would expect.

=item B<threewide>

Fires three arrows in parallel.

=item B<spreadshot>

Fires three arrows which spread out over distance.

=item B<fire>I<direction>

Locks in the direction the missiles will fire, specify by compass position:
B<firenorth>, B<firene>, B<fireeast>, B<firese>, B<firesouth>, B<firesw>, B<firewest>, B<firenw>.

=item B<bestarrow>

Selects and fires the probable best arrow from your inventory.

=back

=head2 brace

When you enter the B<brace> command to brace your character, your
character will no longer move. It can still attack adjoining
spaces. Bracing can be useful to hold a location.

When you are braced, you lose your dex bonus and incur a 2 point
ac penalty beyond that (if you have a negative dex bonus, you may in
fact come out ahead. You also only get 20% of the normal experience
for killing creatures, and incure a 4 point wc (to hit) penalty. 

=head2 chat

   chat <message>

Sends a message to all players on the server that have
L<listen|command/listen> level B<10> or higher.

=head2 cast

You use the cast command to set your range-weapon to the spell you
want. Example:

   cast burning hands

sets your I<range> weapon to B<spell: burning hands>.

If you don't know the spell, shows which spells you do know.

It is helpful to bind string like B<cast burning hands> to keys.

See B<range> for more information on range weapons.

=head2 X<drop>drop (all|unpaid|cursed|unlocked|.*)

   drop [number] name

B<name> is the name of the item(s) to drop. It may match multiple items.
The name is matched against the start of the objects in your inventory.
The name matching is case insensitive.

There are a few special name values:

=over 4

=item B<all>

matches any item.

=item B<unpaid>

matches unpaid items

=item B<cursed>

drops items known to be cursed or damned.

=item B<unlocked>

drops items not locked in your inventory

=back

B<number> is optional. This acts as the number of the object to drop. The
objects number must be at least the number for it to be dropped. For
example, if you do B<drop 10 scroll>, only groupings of 10 or more scrolls
will be dropped. A collection of 5 scrolls will not be dropped.

See also B<dropall> and mouse button control within client for dropping
objects.

=head2 dropall

   dropall [type]

B<dropall> drops all items in your inventory to the ground, excepting
locked items. The type parameter will also control what is dropped:

=over 4

=item nothing specified

Drops all objects except food, money, keys, and containers.

=item B<weapons>

Drops weapons, bows, and arrows.

=item B<armor> (armour)

Drops armor, shield, and helmets.

=item B<misc>

Drops horns, books, girdles, amulets, rings, cloaks, boots, gloves,
bracers, scrolls, wands, rods, and potions.

=back

See also 'drop' and mouse button control for dropping objects.

=head2 examine

Without arguments, this will give some information on the item below you,
with arguments it will give information on a matching item in your inventory.
For example:

   examine rucksack

This will show you something like:

   That is rucksack
   Its weight limit is 647.1 kg.
   It is made of: cloth.
   It weighs 0.100 kg.

=head2 follow

This enables the follow mode (cf+ only).

The player issuing the follow
command is required to stand
on a space right next to the
player that is to be followed.

To start following a player,
use:

   follow <playername>

To stop following, use:

   follow

Without arguments.

=head2 get

   get [item]

This will pick up an item from the floor with the name [item]. If there is
more than one unique item with that name, they are all picked up.

=head2 gsay

If you are in a party (party join or party form), you will be able to message
only your party. Even people standing right next to you can't hear it.

=head2 help

Gives you online help for the command or help topic specified.

=head2 hiscore

Shows a list of the highest level players in the game.

=head2 ignore

   ignore list

Lists all players that you currently ignore.

   ignore <player> <tell|shout|all> [timeout]

This command ignores the specified messages (B<tell> ignores tells,
B<shout> ignores chat and shout and all ignores everything from the given
user).

The optional timeout (specified in hours) specifies then the ignore entry
expires. The default is 24 (one day). The reason why all ignores expire
after a day by default is that most troublemakers stop soon after they are
being ignored.

To revoke an ignore, use the B<unignore> command.

=head2 inventory

Lists all items in your inventory along with their locked/applied/wielded
status. Example:

   inventory

   Inventory:
   - arrow                                 0.1
   - Knife *                                2
   - long sword (wielded)                  15

This shows that you have one arrow which weighs 0.1kg and one Knife which you
protected from dropping by locking it as well as a long sword which you are
currently using to attack.

=head2 invite

This command invites another player to where you are currently located.
There are four levels of inviting that can be earned by doing quests.
Quest descriptions can be found in a house in scorn.

=over 4

=item Level 1 can invite only into private rooms such as apartments.

=item Level 2 can invite into private rooms and unique maps such as guilds.

=item Level 3 can invite to anywhere in the world if there are no monsters on
the map.

=item Level 4 can invite any player to any map with or without monsters. This is
a very dangerous skill and should be used wisely.

=back

In any of these levels, the invited player is required to acknowledge and
allow the transport.

One can never transport from nor to an unholy place. That means, one can
not be saved out of jail using invite.

=head2 invoke

The invoke command is used to cast a spell immediately, or when it is
necessary to give a parameter to the spell. Invoke will not set the range
weapon.

Examples:

   invoke restoration
   invoke magic rune of large fireball
   invoke reincarnation of Iamdead
   invoke create food of waybread

It is very helpful to bind healing spells to keys, for example go to your
I<playerbook>, tab I<spells>, the press the right mosue button on the
spell I<medium healing> and choose C<bind invoke ... to a key>. It is
recommended to bind a healing spell or potion to an easily-accessible-key,
such as '1'.


=head2 killpets

   killpets [name]

The killpets command is a quick and convenient way
to get rid of all your pets when they are no longer
useful or are getting in the way. Any equipment
they had will be left behind, but you will get no
experience for their death. However, it kills them
instantaneously.

If a name is specified then only pets with that 
name will be killed, eg killpets bat will kill bats
but not bees. If a number is specified, the pet 
corresponding to that number is killed.

=head2 listen

   listen <listen-level>

Listen sets the level of messages you will hear.
Priorities are defined as follows:

   0  - Nothing, not even "You punch kobold." or "You say: hi".
   1  - Only messages that have to do with yourself.
   2  - Emergency calls from other users
   10 - General chatter with the 'chat' command.
   11 - See what players kill what monster with what attack/spell. Very
        verbose - only for the fanatics.

=head2 logs

TODO

=head2 mapinfo

Shows some information about the map like this:

   world_105_115 (/world/world_105_115) in scorn
   Creator: Gnat the Gnu
   Email: gnu@foo.bar
   Date: Sun Dec 16 20:53:13 2001

world_105_115:        The map name
/world/world_105_115: The relative map path
scorn:                Region the map is in

The rest is information the mapper may or may not provide. Often, this is
the mapper's name, email and map creation date as this example shows.

=head2 maps

[crossfire+]

   maps <mapname>

Shows a list of maps matching the regex <mapname> that are currently being
known to the server. The different fields are Pl, I, Svd, Reset and Path:

=over 4

=item Pl: the number of players on that map currently.

=item I: B<I>n memory, B<S>wapped out or B<L>oading.

The server keeps maps in memory only for a short time (by default about
40 seconds). After that time, it saves them to disk. As the server loads
most maps in the background it is possible that you can see a map that is
currently being loaded, but thats rare, as loading a map is fast.

=item Svd: the amount of seconds the map was last saved (++ means >99).

The server by default tries to save each map at least every 20 seconds if
it changed, so in case of a disastrous crash (one where the server cannot
emergency save), at most 20 seconds of gameplay are lost.

=item Reset: the minimum number of seconds the map will stay as is (will not reset).

Most maps will not reset as long as players are on it, and usually the
reset counter only starts going down when all players left the map.

=item Path: the name that uniquely identifies the map, can be used for goto etc.

=back


=head2 mark

B<mark> is used to mark items for items that apply other items. Examples of
these are flint & steel marked for apply torches, a weapon marked for
improve weapon scrolls.

B<mark> without options shows your currently marked item.

Usage examples:

   mark sword +3
   mark three torches
   mark sword

B<mark> will look for best match first, and then look for matches based
on shortened name, object name, archetype name. It prints the match it
finds.

=head2 motd

Shows the message of the day. It takes no arguments.

=head2 output-count

   output-count [lines]

output-count sets after how many messages of the same type, they are
then printed out.  If the value was 10, then after killing ten orcs, the
message '10 times you kill orc' would be printed out. The default value is
1 - this means that all messages get printed out as they are requested -
buffering is disabled in this regard.

output-sync controls how often information is sent to the screen. Each
buffer has its own time value, and will be flushed independantly. The
default value is usually less than a second.

See also L<output-sync>.

=head2 output-rate [bytes per second]

Show the current setting of the output-rate, or set it to the provided
value.  The server will try not to send (much) more than this many bytes
per second to your client. If the rate is exceeded, the server tries to
hold back less important information (such as new images), to increase
responsiveness. The server-side default is usually quite high, around
100000, so if you have a slow link and want to be able to control your
character even when downloading faces, set this to a lower value, such as
7000 (for ISDN).

=head2 output-sync

   output-sync [seconds]

output-sync controls how often information is sent to the screen. Each
buffer has its own time value, and will be flushed independantly. The
default value is usually less than a second.

output-count sets after how many messages of the same type, they are
then printed out.  If the value was 10, then after killing ten orcs, the
message '10 times you kill orc' would be printed out. The default value is
1 - this means that all messages get printed out as they are requested -
buffering is disabled in this regard.

See also L<output-count>.

=head2 party

party join partyname
        Puts you in a party, prompts you for a passwd if there is
one

party form partyname
        Forms a party and puts you as leader, 32 character max.
At the moment, being party leader does nothing. May be used in
the future.

party list
        Lists currently formed parties and their 'leader'

party passwd <password>
        Changes the passwd for the party you are in, 8 character max.

party who
        lists the members of the party you are in

party say <msg>
        sends messsage to party members 

party leave
        takes you out of current party

=head2 peaceful

TODO: rework for cf.schmorp.de, intended future behaviour is to toggle
peaceful mode with regards to npc and monsters only, not with regards to
players (which will be controlled by priests).

The B<peaceful> command will switch you between peaceful and hostile attack
modes.

When peaceful is on you will not automatically attack other player when
bumping into them and will do reduced damage against other players if
you do attack them (friendly fire).  Having peaceful mode on only lowers
damage against other players, it has no effect on damage done to monsters
or other NPCs, so it is generally advisable to remain in peaceful mode
unless you are looking for trouble.  It is still entirely possible to kill
other players when in peaceful mode so you should still be careful when
interacting with other players.  Hostile mode (peaceful off) will enable
melee combat when bumping into other players and does normal damage for
other attacks as well.

Damage done by area effect attacks like cone spells, explosive
detonations, fireballs, poisons, cloud or swarm attacks, runes or disease
are not modified by peaceful/hostile mode.

=head2 X<petmode>petmode (normal|sad|defend|arena)

B<petmode> controls how your pets (charmed monsters) will behave.

The options are:

=over 4

=item B<normal>

As you would expect.

=item B<sad> (search and destroy)
   
Pets will roam and seek out things to attack.

=item B<defend>

Pets will try to stay close and defend you.

=item B<arena>

Like B<normal>, except that pets will attack other players in the arena.

=back

=head2 pickup

B<pickup> changes how you pick up items when you step on them. to pickup
an item manually, use the ',' key.

Mode 0: Don't pick up items.

Mode 1: Pick up one item 

Mode 2: Pickup up one item and stop

Mode 3: Stop before picking up items

Mode 4: Pick up all items

Mode 5: Pick up all items and stop

Mode 6: Pick up all magical items

Mode 7: Pick up all coins and gems

Modes above 7: Pickup items with
a value density greater than the pickup mode.

Value density is value in gold/weight in kilograms.

The value in gold is what the item is worth if you sold it in the shop.

Goldcoins have a value density of 66,

Density 10 will pickup silver, gold, rings, wands, books, and scrolls.
Artifacts are also picked up.

=head2 prepare

The same as cast. Usage:

   prepare <spell>

=head2 X<quests>quests (|finished|.*)

The quests command lists the quests you are doing or have completed.

Parameters are:

=over 4

=item no arguments: displays current quests.

=item B<finished>: displays finished quests;

=item anything else: displays details for quests (finished or not) with name containing the given string.

=back

=head2 quit

Deletes your character from the server. If you want to quit the session
without deleting your character, you must use a I<Bed to Reality>. Find a
bed (probably in a building close to where you entered the game), get on
top of it, and apply it using B<Tab> ro the B<apply> command.

=head2 range

Your range weapon can be one of several weapons, a spell you cast, a
bow-and-arrow, a rod, or a wand, to name a few.

Your range weapon is fired when you press SHIFT-direction, and will be
fired in that direction.

=head2 ready_skill

   ready_skill <name of skill>

Readies the given L<skill|pod/skill_help> by putting it in your L<range
slot|glossary/range slot>. Some skills are used automatically when
readied, some need to be actively used by "firing" them.

If you just want to invoke a skill once, leaving your range slot
untouched, use L<use_skill> instead.

=head2 rename

Changes/removes the custom name of given item (or the marked one).

   rename oldname to newname
   rename "old item name" to "new item name"

If either of the names contain spaces, you have to use the C<">-form,
otherwise you can just write the name as-is. If you omit the old name, the
marked item will be used instead.

If the new name is empty (i.e. C<"">), then the original (unrenamed) name
will be restored.

Note: maximum allowed name length is 127 characters.

=head2 reply

   reply <message>

Similar to tell, but instead of having to supply a username, it replies
to the last player that sent you a tell. This is a bit racy (e.g. when
somebody else tells you something while you type and you do not realise
that), so be careful not to supply confidential information in the
message.

=head2 resistances

This shows you the resistances you have to specific attack types.
If you have for example "cold +20", it means you get 20% damage done
by cold attacks. If you have "ghost hit -50", you will get 50% more
damage by ghost hits.

If you are a dragon, you will also get your natural skin resistances
appened to the list. These will never lower, only rise.

=head2 rotateshoottype

Switches between spell, skill and weapon. Example:

   cast burning hands
   ready_skill disarm traps
   apply wand of medium fireball

   rotateshoottype   # Switches to the spell (burning hands)
   rotateshoottype   # Switches to the wand (of medium fireball)
   rotateshoottype   # Switches to the skill (disarm traps)
   rotateshoottype   # Disables the range slot (won't use anything)
   rotateshoottype   # Switches back to the spell.. and so on

=head2 say

Will tell all players on the same map as yourself a message.

=head2 save

Updates players status to disk. This can be useful for making backup
copies if you fear the server is about to crash.

The server saves your character automatically in certain intervals,
and also on clean shutdowns, so there is little practical use for this
command.

WARNING - if you want to leave the game without destroying your player,
you must find a I<Bed to Reality> and hit B<Tab> on the bed to apply
it. Doing B<save> and then B<quit>ing will still delete your character.

=head2 search-items

   search-items <word>

Automatically picks up all items with <word> in their name. search-items rod
will pick up all rods and heavy rods. search-items of Fire will pick up all
bolts, arrows, swords, etc. of Fire.

=head2 seen

   seen <login>

Tells you when the player named <login> was last seen on the server (cf+
only).

=head2 shout

   shout <message>

Sends a message to all players on the server that have
L<listen|command/listen> level B<10> or higher. It is mainly useful for
emergency messages ("I am trapped on xxx, can somebody help me?") and
should not be used for general chat. Use L<chat|command/chat> instead.

=head2 showpets

   showpets <number>

Shows a numbered list of the pets owned by the player. If a number is
specified, instead shows a detailed printout about that pet.

=head2 skills

Lists all skills you have along with the experience you have in those skills.
Example:

   skills

   literacy................................lvl:  4 (xp:9944/16000/25%)
   one handed weapons......................lvl:  4 (xp:15059/16000/25%)

This shows you that you have two skills, literacy and one handed weapons. You
are level 4 in both skills and in literacy, you have 9944 experience points.
You need to reach 16000 to gain another level. The 25% at the end show you what
percentage of your experience is permanent, which means you cannot lose it if
you die.

=head2 sort_inventory

If sort_inventory is set, items will be inserted into your inventory
in order by type than alphabetical. This, all scrolls will be grouped
together, but in alphabetical order. Same for all weapons. This only
applies to new items you pick up - items that you are already holding will
not be sorted.

If sort_inventory is not set (default), items will be inserted via type,
subtype and magic. This, all axes will be grouped together in magic order,
all daggers by magic order, etc. Unforunately, for scrolls and rings, new
ones just get inserted last.

If you have a lot of stuff that is not in alphabetical order but you would
like it to be, the best method is to drop all of it and then pick it up.

=head2 sound

Toggles between sound enabled and disabled. This has no relevance to the
sound settings of the client, it only governs wether the server will send
sound effect command to the client and is enabled if the client supports
sound (i.e. always for cfplus).

=head2 statistics

B<statistics> shows various useful information about your character.
None of the information it shows is stuff that is not contained in the
documentation.

As of now, it shows how much experience you need for your next level. It
also shows natural, real, and maximum statistic values.

Your natural stat is the stat without any items/spells applied.

Real is what the current value is (same as in the stat window.)

Maximum is the maximum value for your natural stat.

=head2 suicide

Kills yourself. No, really.

This command might not look useful at first, but sometimes you can get
yourself into a corner you can't escape anymore, either due to a map
bug or your own stupidity. Killing oneself can be difficult and time
consuming, thats why this command is provided. It is fast, painless,
effective, humane.

=head2 take

The take commands take object(s) on the space the player is standing on,
and inserts them into the players inventory.

If no parameter is given, take will get the top object that can be taken
and put it in the players inventory. If no object can be taken, that will
be stated.

A parameter can be given to take. In this case, all object that have names
that match the parameter will be picked up. Thus, if there is a 'sword of
WOE', and 'sword +1' and a 'sword -3' on the ground, 'take sword' will
pick all of them up.

By default, take is bound to the comma key, with no parameters. To change
this, look at the bind command.

=head2 tell

   tell <playername> <message>...

Sends a private message to the given player I<only>.

=head2 throw

Throws an unlocked item in your inventory, be it applied or not, into the
direction you are looking. If you mark an item in your inventory, this item
is thrown first. If there is more than one copy of an item, only one of it is
thrown away. God-given items can not be thrown. You need the skill throwing
for this to work.

=head2 time

Shows the Crossfire in-game time, not the server time. It looks like this:

   It is 52 minutes past 8 o'clock am, on the Day of the Bull
   The 2nd Day of the Month of the Frost Giant, Year 63
   Time of Year: The Season of New Year

It is partially just for fun but it affects the darkness outside and the
weather if weather is enabled in the server.

=head2 title

Players can change their title. For example you called yourself Gandalf and
your race is elf, you can use the title command to change your name from
"Gandalf the elf" to "Gandalf the white". Usage:

   title <new title>
   title clear   # Sets your title back to your race.

Dragons cannot set their title because it changes during the game.

=head2 unignore

   unignore <login>

Cancels all ignores set for the specified login. See B<ignore>.

=head2 uptime

Tells you something about the time the server was started and how long ago
that was.

=head2 use_skill

   use_skill <name of skill>

Uses the given L<skill|pod/skill_help> immediately, once. See also
L<ready_skill>.

=head2 usekeys (inventory|keyrings|containers)

The B<usekeys> option determines the behaviour of using keys.

Values are:

inventory: Only keys in the top level inventory are used (default)

keyrings: Only keys in active keyrings are used.

containers: Only keys in active containers are used.

Note that keyrings are just a specialized container, so the containers
will also find keys in keyrings.

Only active containers are used - keys will not jump out of closed
containers, but hints will be given if you have keys in such containers.

=head2 version

Shows what version of the software the server is running on and what people
have contributed what to the game.

=head2 weather

Gives you information about the current weather of outside areas, if the
server has weather support (which is unlikely, as it is very broken).

=head2 whereabouts

The whereabouts command gives a summary about the
regions in which players are currently staying.

=head2 whereami

Tells you some historical information on the region you are currently in.

=head2 who

Shows what players are playing in the world and where they are. It may also
show their levels and race or title. (See the L<title|command/title> command)

B<who> optionally takes an argument that limits the players shown to
the specified region, e.g. B<who brest> will show all players playing
somewhere in Brest.

=head2 wimpy

The wimpy level is the amount of health points (hp) that may be left before you
automatically run away. This may be useful in hand-to-hand combats but should
not be used when the opponent attacks with spells.


=head1 Authors

Parts of this document were originally taken from the crossfire server
help files with unknwon authors.

Adapted for use by I<cfplus>, enhanced and corrected by Pippijn van
Steenhoven and Marc A. Lehmann.

