=begin comment

***
*** WARNING:
*** This file resides in both CFPlus/pod/ and server/pod/
*** Only ever edit the version in CFPlus/pod/ and run
*** ./copy_pod inside server/pod/ to update that copy.
***

=end

=head1 Crossfire+ Dungeon Master Commands

The following commands are only available to you if you are dungeon
master, that is, a kind of server administrator with special privileges.

=head2 abil

   abil <player> <attribute> <value> 

abil will permanently change the ability scores of players. Attribute is
one of str, dex, con, int, wis, pow, cha. Value may not exceed 30.

=head2 addexp

   addexp <player> <how much> 

The player must have a skill readied. All experience added in this manner
will go directly to the skill readied.

=head2 banish

   banish <player> 

I<Kicks> the named player and adds their current IP address to the banish
file.  This will prevent the named player from logging into the server
(from their current IP). This is an in-game version of the ban function
meant for short term relief of persistant goons and for DMs who do not
have shell access. It is probably a good idea to clear out the banish file
(usually at F</var/crossfire/banish_file>) on a regular basis and delete
or move any entries to the ban_file if desired.

=head2 create

   create <number> <bonus> <archtype> <variable1> <value1> <variable2> <value2> ...  

Creating items is rather dangerous and tends to crash the server when
creating some items.

The number and bonus attributes may be left off, or the bonus itself may
be left off any time.  If a bonus is desired, number must be specified as
well.  Archtype must be specified in all cases. Variable and values may be
left off at any time, but specifiying a variable requires a value also be
specified.

Multipart values such as for an item name must be quoted.

Example:

   create 5 +1 sword name "Spiffy Sword" face chicken.171

This would create 5 +1 longswords named 'Spiffy Sword' that look like
chickens. See also: patch, dump

=head2 debug

   debug <level> 

Without arguments, debug will simply print the current level of
debugging. Valid debugging levels are 0-3 where: llevError = 0, llevInfo =
1, llevDebug = 2, llevMonster = 3

=head2 dump

   dump <tag> 

Using dump, you can see the attributes of any item in the game.  To find
the object number of an item you wish to view, click on it. If this item
is in your inventory, or you are standing over, click on yourself and the
item tags will be displayed. see also: patch

=head2 dumpallarchtypes

   dumpallarchtypes 
 
This prints out a list of all archtypes to stderr.

=head2 dumpallmaps

   dumpallmaps 

This prints out map information for all active maps to stderr.

=head2 dumpallobjects

   dumpallobjects 

This prints out a list of all active objects to stderr.

=head2 dumpbelow

   dumpbelow 

Will dump the attributes of the top item you are standing over. see also:
dump

=head2 dumpfriendlyobjects

   dumpfriendlyobjects

This prints out a list of all active friendly objects to stderr.

=head2 forget_spell

   forget_spell <spell name>

This will cause you to permanently lose knowledge of a spell.

=head2 free

   free <tag> 

C<free> should ONLY be used after remove.  Freeing an object that has
not been removed will cause the game to crash. For most objects, simply
removing them is sufficient and they will eventually be freed.  See Also:
remove

=head2 goto

   goto <mapname> 

Using this command will instantly move you to the start point of the map
specified.

=head2 hide

   hide

This hides the DM from being seen by other players.  This is done by
making the player perpetually invisible.  It also results in the player
not showing up in the who command, maps comamnd, or being reported as a
player on the metaserver.

Note that the DM can still do things that makes his presence known, eg,
shout, other DM actions, etc.

=head2 insert_into

   insert_into <item> <item>

This will insert the 2nd item in the first.  2nd can't be a player.

=head2 invisible

   invisible 

Makes you invisible for a short time.

=head2 kick

   kick <player> 

This command will kick a player off the server. If used without an
argument, it will kick all players off the server with the exception of
you.

=head2 learn_special_prayer

   learn_special_prayer <prayer name>

this will allow you to permanently learn a spell as a special prayer of
your god. see also: learn_spell

=head2 learn_spell

   learn_spell <spell name>

This will allow you to permanently learn a spell. <spell name> may be a
partial spell name.

It is similar to learn_special_prayer except that you will retain
knowledge of this spell regardless of changing dieties. see also:
learn_special_prayer

=head2 mon_aggr

   mon_aggr

Toggles the aggression of the monster you are currently possessing. Not
reccomended to be flipped on yourself as a player.

=head2 nodm

   nodm or nowiz 

Both of these commands will return you to normal player status.

=head2 nowiz

   nodm or nowiz 

Both of these commands will return you to normal player status.

=head2 overlay_save

   overlay_save 

This will save everything on the current map that was not originally part
of it as an overlay. The overlay will then be loaded anytime the map
itself is loaded.  Be careful with this as EVERYTHING on the map will be
saved in an overlay, such as spawned monsters and dropped objects.

=head2 patch

   patch <tag> <variable> <value> 

Using the patch command, you can radically modify the properties of
objects in the game. Simply specify the object to modify and the new
values of its variables (or completely new variables).  See Also: dump

=head2 perl-reload

Will first unload all loaded perl extensions and modules loaded from the
extension directory, followed by loading the perl part of the plugin and
all extensions found.

This is done in an as atomic way as possible so it is safe to do at
anytime.

=head2 plugin

   plugin <plugin name>

This will load a new plugin into memory. Using this with no arguments,
or invalid arguments will cause a server crash. Plugin name should be as
it appears in your plugin directory. Double check the names before using
plugins.

=head2 pluglist

   pluglist 

This shows currently loaded plugins.

=head2 plugout

   plugout <plugin name>

This will remove a loaded plugin from memory.

=head2 possess

   possess (nr)

Take over the body of a given monster. It is not suggested you try to
possess another player, as bad things will undoubtably happen. Allows DM
to control the monster directly with his client.

=head2 printlos

   printlos 

This is used for line of sight debugging.

=head2 remove

   remove <tag> 

C<remove> will, suprisingly enough, remove the object specified by the tag
supplied. see also: free

=head2 reset

   reset <mapname> 

All other characters must be off of the map at the time of reset. This
will NOT reset any unique items, such as players apartments, in the case
of unique items being on a map, it will cause them to be saved before the
map is reset.

Using C<reset .> will reset the map that the player is currently on.

=head2 server_speed

   server_speed [newspeed] 

Without arguments, this prints current server speed. If given an argument,
it will set server speed to the new speed.

=head2 set_god

   set_god <player> <diety>

This will change a players diety to the diety specified.

=head2 shutdown

   shutdown 

This will cause a Crossfire+ to shut down entirely by first kicking out
all players, saving all maps and finally exiting. Crossfire servers will
kick out players and might or might not save some players or maps.

=head2 spellreset

   spellreset 

This causes the spell table to be reinitialized.

=head2 ssdumptable

   ssdumptable 

This will print out the current hash table to stderr.

=head2 stats

   stats <player>

This displays the named players statistics.

=head2 style_info

   style_info 

This will print out information regarding current styles in use.

=head2 summon

   summon <player> 

Summoning a player will bring them immediately to your location.  There
is no 'reverse' summoning, except to go to a map yourself and summon the
player again.

=head2 teleport

   teleport <player> 

C<teleport> will bring you immediately next to the player's location.

=head2 toggle_shout

   toggle_shout <player> 

Will toggle the no_shout bit for the named player.  This will prevent or
enable the player to use the shout command.

=head2 wizcast

   wizcast [<on_off>]

This will enable/disable your ability to cast spells and prayers anywhere
as dm. Without argument it toggles between on and off.

=head2 wizpass

   wizpass 

This will toggle on and off your ability to walk thru walls as dm.
