=for image banner.png

=head1 CFPlus Tutorial - An introduction to Crossfire+ and Crossfire game client.

=head2 What's Crossfire+ - Basic Game Concepts

In the words of Frank Tore Johansen, the author of the original Crossfire
game:

"Crossfire is a multi-player graphical arcade and adventure game made for
the X Window System environment. It has certain flavours from other
games, especially gauntlet and the rogue-like games. Any number of players
can move around in their own window, finding and using items and battling
monsters. They can choose to cooperate or compete in the same world."

In the years of development that have followed, Crossfire has grown to
encompass hundreds of monsters, thousands of maps to explore, an elaborate
magic system, over 15 character types, a system of skills, and many, many
artifacts and treasures.

Crossfire+ is freely distributed under the General Public License (GPL)
and the code may be obtained from L<http://crossfire.schmorp.de/>.

=head1 Getting Started

First of all, don't be daunted by the apparent complexity of Crossfire -
in reality, Crossfire is quite easy to play and character generation is
simple. Later on, when you have some experience playing the game, you may
wish to read the full manual.

=head2 User Interface Basics

# very short description of all ui elements

=head2 Start Playing

When starting the client you will see a window in the middle of the screen:

=for image sc_login.png

There are several settings there:

=over 4

=item B<Host:Port>

In the I<Host:Port> entry you can enter the server hostname followed by
a colon with the port. The port is per default 13326 if you just enter
the hostname.

Below the entry there is a button I<Server List>. If you click on it you
will get a server list:

=for image sc_login_srvlist.png

You can choose from the aviable servers there.
(B<Note:> At the time of this writing (2006-07-23) only I<cf.schmorp.de> supports
all features that are offered by CFPlus).

=item B<Username>

Here you have to enter the character name you would like to play
with.
If you are playing for the first time, type any name you like; this will
be your character name for the rest of the life of that character.
As you don't have a character yet you have to create a new
character. It will be explained below at the L<Character Creation>.

=item B<Password>

Next, type in any password. Remember:
you will need to remember the same password again to play that character
again! You can use B<Save Config> (see the buttons on the top of the window) to save your settings,
including name and password, but if it gets lost recovery is difficult, so remember your
password or write it down at a safe place.

One more note: it's not a good idea to use "real" passwords to your
computer accounts! Doing so may make your system vulnerable to
unscrupulous Crossfire server administrators.

=back

Enter the desired I<Username> and I<Password> and click on I<Login> now.

=head2 Character Creation

=for item sc_char_create.png

Your next step will be to generate random (primary) stats for your
character (to see the stats, you might have to open the B<Stats Window>
using the button at the top of the screen).

Hover with the mouse cursor over the stats (Str, Dex, Con, Int, Wis, Pow and Cha)
to see what they mean or what they do.

Or look at L<Character Stats>.

You can let the dices reroll your stats with the I<Roll Again> button, you can
I<Swap Stats>.
You aren't limited to the number of times you can roll your stats - so have fun.
Notice that the stats are always arranged that the B<Str> stat has the highest value, the
B<Cha> stat has the lowest. You may rearrange the order of these values
when you decide that you have rolled some decent stats. Two points: you
can never roll a character with better stats than an average of straight
15's, and you can't roll higher than 18 in a stat.

Finally click on I<Accept> stats when you think they are fine.

The next you will see after accepting the stats will be the race selection:

=for image sc_char_create_race.png

On the top right a text is displayed that explains the current selected race.
If you rearrange the windows like this:

=for image sc_char_create_race2.png

You will also see the face of the selected race. Click on I<Next Race> and read all
the descriptions until you find the right race for your new character.
Keep in mind that the races also affect the L<Character Stats>.

After you clicked I<Accept> you will see this:

(I chose a Halfling for now)

=for image sc_new_char.png

The dragon on the right is another player that is currently logging in or creating his character.

Now go to the south (you can move your character by with the keypad or the cursor keys).
You will enter a hall similar to this:

=for image sc_new_char_hall.png

Step onto the first cell before the teleporter and the description of the character class
will be displayed in the message window:

=for image sc_new_char_class.png

While each class has its particular strengths and weaknesses, in summary
its just a fact that some classes are easier to play than others.

For beginning players, the "simple fighter" characters are the easiest
to play successfully. The B<Dwarf>, B<Human>, and B<Warrior> are among
good earlier choices. As you gain experience with using Crossfire+ you
may wish to branch out into other "fighter" characters such as the
B<Thief> or B<Elf>, or try your hand at playing "spellcaster" characters
like the B<Wizard>, B<Mage>, B<Cleric> or B<Priest>. The "exotic" races
(e.g. B<Fireborn>, B<Quetzalcoatl> and B<Wraith>) and the B<Monk> class
are the hardest classes to master.

One more note: You will probably find any character class that has a low
natural B<Int> (for example, the B<Barbarian> class) will have a fairly
difficult time at higher levels. Skills, and most importantly, spells,
will be more difficult learn. Plan to spend a lot of loot on grimores,
prayer books and skill scrolls.

If you found a class that you like step on the teleporter.

=head2 The first dungeons

Next you will land in the nexus:

=for image sc_new_char_nexus.png

Read the signs by stepping on them and read what they say.
These signs automatically display what they have to say in the message window.
Other signs you have to read by applying them. You apply something by middle-click
it in the floorbox:

=for image sc_new_char_floorbox_apply.png

Or you can use the I<spacebar> to apply the topmost thing you see in the floorbox.

For now go to the north into the newbies house. Read all signs there and follow their
instructions.

If you see NPC's there, click on them and you will enter the NPC dialouge:

=for image sc_newbiew_npc_dialog.png

The buttons on the right are options of what you can say to the NPC. You can also
click on the links in the text to ask the NPC about that.

Another note about entering commands:

In crossfire most things are command driven. You can enter commands in two ways:

=over 4

=item B<Chat Box>

=for image sc_chatbox.png

If you plan longer chat sessions you maybe prefer this.

=item B<Command Completer>

=for image sc_command_completer.png

Read the tooltip that occurs when you hover the mouse above the entry.
This completer can speed up commands a lot.

=back

Ok, I assume now that you finished the newbies house and you are back in the nexus.
Now walk to the left, to the exit to I<Scorn>, the main town in the world.
It's the main meeting place for most people on the server and it offers newbie
dungeons for the beginners.

If you walk into the exit you will be teleported to scorn:

To the west you see the two beginner houses. Step onto the first one:

=for image sc_scorn_beginners_house.png

Press spacebar to apply it to enter the house. Like the newbies house
in the nexus read all signs and follow their orders:

=for image sc_inthe_beginners_house.png

After you finished that house, enter the second house and finish it.

After finishing those two houses there are multiple dungeons for newbies.
The best for you to start is the I<Newbie Tower>:

=for image sc_scorn_newbie_tower.png

To the north there is the I<Drinking Fountain> a well that you can enter.
The first parts of the dungeon there are also very nice.

=for image sc_scorn_drinking_fountain.png

Explore Scorn, there are many dungeons in the houses. Be careful when meeting
new monsters, ask questions on the server via the I<chat> command and read the
documentation here for further information about some topics.

Before doing further exploration you maybe want to know how to see your progress
and where to see what level you are and what your current stats are.

=head2 Displayed information

The most important dialog is the I<Playerbook>, it can be opened by clicking
on the I<Playerbook> button on the top of the window or by pressing I<Tab>.
There are also shortcuts to them on the keys I<F2> to I<F5>. (I<F1> brings up this help).

Here is a quick explanation what all main information elements in the client gui mean:

=over 4

=item B<Gauges and Floorbox>

=for image sc_gauges_and_floorbox.png

These are the gauges that display your Health, Spellpoints/Mana,
Grace and Food. Please hover the mouse cursor above them and read the tooltips.
On the bottom of the gauges the maximum value is displayed and on the top
the current value.

Below the gauges there is the experience and level displayed. The level is increased
once you reached a certain amount of experience points.

Below that there is the range slot. It displays the currently selected range weapon
that you can fire with ctrl+<direction>. This could be a bow or a spell.

=item B<Statusbox>

=for image sc_statusbox.png

It displays all the current status messages that occur while playing.
For example what you hit, if you gained experience, if someone entered
the game or if someone said something. The status messages will disappear over time.
B<Note:> Most status messages are also displayed in the message window, for example
chatters and if someone entered/left the game.

=item B<Skill list>

If you press I<F3> or open the playerbook via the I<Playerbook> button on the top
of the window and select the I<Skills> tab, you will see this:

=for image sc_skill_list.png

It displays all the skills you have and displays the experience points and level you gained in each.

=item B<Statistics>

If you want to see what stats and resistancies you currently have, go to the I<Statistics> tab in the
I<Playerbook> (for example by pressing I<F2>).

=for image sc_statistics.png

Resistancies protect you from a certain type of attack.

=item B<Spellbook>

If you want to see what spells you have learned yet, go to the I<Spellbook> tab in the
I<Playerbook> (for example by pressing I<F4>).

You wont see there any spell if you just started, but if you learn a spell, it will show up there.

If you have learned some spells it should look like this:

=for image sc_spellbook.png

=back

=head2 After playing

If you are tired or want to take a break from playing, you have to find a I<Bed to Reality>.
The I<Wanderers Inn> is the best place to find such a bed for a newbie:

=for image sc_wanderers_inn.png

Go into it and find a I<Bed to Reality>:

=for image sc_bed_to_reality.png

If you apply it your character will be saved. Your score will also be displayed and your rank
on the hiscore list.

=for image sc_score.png

=head1 Getting Started (old)

=head2 How to create a new Character

When you start up Crossfire, you will be asked for a character name and a
password (you may need to open the B<Server Setup> dialog for this using
the button at the top of the screen). If you are playing for the first
time, type any name you like; this will be your character name for the
rest of the life of that character. Next, type in any password. Remember:
you will need to remember the same password again to play that character
again! You can use B<Save Config> to save your settings, including name
and password, but if it gets lost recovery is difficult, so remember your
password or write it down at a safe place.

One more note: it's not a good idea to use "real" passwords to your
computer accounts! Doing so may make your system vulnerable to
unscrupulous Crossfire server administrators.

Your next step will be to generate random (primary) stats for your
character (to see the stats, you might have to open the B<Stats Window>
using the button at the top of the screen). You aren't limited to the
number of times you can roll your stats - so have fun. Notice that the
stats are always arranged that the B<Str> stat has the highest value, the
B<Cha> stat has the lowest. You may rearrange the order of these values
when you decide that you have rolled some decent stats. Two points: you
can never roll a character with better stats than an average of straight
15's, and you can't roll higher than 18 in a stat.

When you roll your character, the stats displayed are the stats you will
get as a human (which are unmodified). When satisfied, you can step
through a number of races, each with special bonuses in stats.

The manual shows how your basic stats will be changed by choosing a
different race. The difference between the natural stat limit and 20
indicates the bonus/penalty assigned to rolled primary stats. For example,
a troll has a maximum strength which is 5 higher than 20-that means he
will begin with an additional 5 points added to his strength roll. On the
other hand, a troll can never get above 15 in intelligence. This means
that your rolled character will have 5 less in intelligence if you choose
that race. You should also note that any bonus to an ability can't raise
the final number above your racial maximum, and no penalty can give you an
ability score less then one; the lowest it can ever get is one.

=head3 Selecting a class

While each class has its particular strengths and weaknesses, in summary
its just a fact that some classes are easier to play than others.

For beginning players, the "simple fighter" characters are the easiest
to play successfully. The B<Dwarf>, B<Human>, and B<Warrior> are among
good earlier choices. As you gain experience with using Crossfire+ you
may wish to branch out into other "fighter" characters such as the
B<Thief> or B<Elf>, or try your hand at playing "spellcaster" characters
like the B<Wizard>, B<Mage>, B<Cleric> or B<Priest>. The "exotic" races
(e.g. B<Fireborn>, B<Quetzalcoatl> and B<Wraith>) and the B<Monk> class
are the hardest classes to master.

One more note: You will probably find any character class that has a low
natural B<Int> (for example, the B<Barbarian> class) will have a fairly
difficult time at higher levels. Skills, and most importantly, spells,
will be more difficult learn. Plan to spend a lot of loot on grimores,
prayer books and skill scrolls.

=head2 Playing the game

#TODO biggers house, binding keys etc.

=head1 Hints for Beginning Players

I'm done with class selection, now there are three ways to go, where
should I go? It is a good idea to take the northern path into the
teleporter leading you to the beginners house. You can learn some basic
skills there before journeying onward. Once you are there, you will get
many things explained to you. Make sure you investigate every place in
that house.

I'm on the starting map, what do I do now? You should be in a city square
with a few sign posts in the middle. Move over the signs and apply them
B<spacebar> to read what they say.

For beginners, there are several maps designed for them. Find these areas
and clear them out. All throughout these levels, a player can find signs
and books which they can read by stepping onto them and hitting B<space
bar> to apply the book/sign. These messages will help the player to learn
the system. Probably the first, best area for a beginning player to start
out in is "Beginners." This area is a small house located southwest of
your starting location.

=head2 Flailing about with spells

Some items are perishable. If you shoot a fireball into a room full of
scrolls, you will notice them going up in smoke! So be careful not to
destroy valuable items.

=head2 Tips on surviving

Crossfire+ is populated with a wealth of different monsters. These monsters
can have varying immunities and attacktypes. In addition, some of them can
be quite a bit smarter than others. It will be important for new players
to learn the abilities of different monsters and learn just how much it
will take to kill them.

Most monsters in the game are out to mindlessly kill and destroy the
players. Killing monsters will help boost a player's score. When fighting
a large amount of monsters in a single room, attempt to find a narrower
hallway so that you are not being attacked from all sides. Charging into a
room full of Beholders would not be wise, instead, open the door and fight
them one at a time.

More advice can be found in the Survival Guide
L<http://crossfire.real-time.com/guides/survival_guide/index.html>.

=head2 Priorities for low-level characters

The priority for characters below about 5th level is to gain some basic
items. In this regard, better armour and better spells are best. Look for
a quest among the various islands that will allow you to obtain mithril
mail. Whenever you scrape together ~100-200 platinum pieces go shopping
for armour and weapons (or spells). If you are a fighter type, try to have
at least a +2 weapon, +2 helmet, +2 suit of armour, and +2 shield before
you reach 5th level. For wizards, attempt to recover enough treasure to
be able to buy up good attack spells. For priests, first thing to do is
worship a god! Try to get the holy word prayer as soon as possible. Make
sure your current god allows good potential use of this spell.

For all classes, get access to the detect magic incantation as soon as
possible. This will allow you to sort through the treasure you find while
you're in the dungeon, and will save you time and money at the shops.

=head2 Diseases

Diseases are, well, diseases. They can be contageous or not, and can be
contracted in a number of ways, and they vary greatly in their symptoms
and dangerousness.

Diseases have "levels". If you contract a disease and recover naturally,
you're immune to that disease forever, provided the instance of the
disease is of equal or lower level than your immunity.

For example, you get a case of the flu cast by yourself at level 15. When
you get over it, you're immune to any flu of level less than 16. When you
become level 16 and cast the flu again, you are I<not> immune.

Spells such as B<cure disease> or B<restoration> will remove a disease, but
will not grant immunity.

When cast as a spell, diseases's severity is level dependent. A 30th level
cold is a I<lot> more severe than a level 2 cold.

Undead are I<never> affected by any disease.

Any priest player who isn't denied the path of wounding may learn and B<cast
cause> B<cold>, B<flu>, B<typhoid>, B<anthrax> and B<leprosy> spells.

Any priest with a high enough B<Wis> and with a religion that is attuned
to wounding may learn to B<cast cause> B<smallpox>, B<white death> and
B<red death> by praying at his altar.

The I<damage> caused each round varies between 0 and the maximum listed
for a disease. So you can inflict a I<mild> case of ebola, which would
I<not> kill a monster, or a severe one capable of killing it.

# TODO: disease table needs heavy reformatting
anthrax, anthrax, Godpower
arthritis, arthritis, Godpower
disease_cold, cold, Godpower
creeping_frost, creeping frost, Cold
diarrhea, the runs, Physical
ebola, Red Death, Godpower
egg_disease, egg disease, Physical
flaming_fart, flaming farts, Physical
flu, flu, Godpower
immolation, immolation, Fire
incontinence, lack of bladder control, Physical
insanity, insanity, Confusion
leprosy, leprosy, Godpower
bubonic_plague, Black Death, Godpower
pneumonic_plague, pneumonic plague, Godpower
rabies, rabies, Godpower + Confusion
scurvy, scurvy, Physical
smallpox, smallpox, Godpower
tapeworms, tapeworms, Physical
tooth_decay, tooth decay, Physical
typhoid, typhoid, Godpower
warts, warts, Physical

=head1 Authors

Parts of this document were originally compiled, edited, and written by
Brian Thomas, Klaus Elsbernd, and John W. Klar. Additional information
compiled by Maciej Kalisiak, Gorlin, Anton Oussik and Gene Alexander.

Adapted for use by I<cfplus>, enhanced and corrected by Pippijn van
Steenhoven, Marc A. Lehmann and Robin Redeker.

