=head1 X<tooltip>Tooltips

This section just contains some of the tooltips of the Crossfire+ client.

=head2 X<stat_health>

B<Health points>. Measures of how much damage you can take before
dying. Hit points are determined from your level and are influenced by the
value of your Con. Hp value may range between 1 to beyond 500 and higher
values indicate a greater ability to withstand punishment.

=head2 X<stat_mana>

B<Spell points>. Measures of how much "fuel" you have for casting spells
and incantations. Mana is calculated from your level and your Pow. Mana
values can range between 1 to beyond 500 (glowing crystals can increase
the current spell points beyond your normal maximum). Higher values
indicate greater amounts of mana.

=head2 X<stat_grace>

B<Grace points> - how favored you are by your god. In game terms, how
much divine magic you can cast. Your level, Wis and Pow effect what the
value of grace is. Prayong on an altar of your god can increase this value
beyond your normal maximum. Grace can take on large positive and negative
values. Positive values indicate favor by the gods.

=head2 X<stat_food>

B<Food>. Ranges between 0 (starving) and 999 (satiated). At a value of
0 the character begins to die. Some magic can speed up or slow down the
character digestion. Healing wounds will speed up digestion too.

=head2 X<stat_exp>

B<Experience points and overall level> - experience is increased as a
reward for appropriate action (such as killing monsters) and may decrease
as a result of a magical attack or dying. Level is directly derived
from the experience value. As the level of the character increases, the
character becomes able to succeed at more difficult tasks. A character's
level starts at a value of 0 and may range up beyond 100.

=head2 X<stat_ranged>

B<Ranged attack> - how you attack when you press shift-cursor (spell,
skill, weapon etc).

=head2 X<stat_Str>

B<Physical Strength>, determines damage dealt with weapons, how much you
can carry, and how often you can attack.

=head2 X<stat_Dex>

B<Dexterity>, your physical agility. Determines chance of being hit and
affects armor class and speed.

=head2 X<stat_Con>

B<Constitution>, physical health and toughness. Determines how many
healthpoints you can have.

=head2 X<stat_Int>

B<Intelligence>, your ability to learn and use skills and incantations
(both prayers and magic) and determines how much spell points you can have.

=head2 X<stat_Wis>

B<Wisdom>, the ability to learn and use divine magic (prayers). Determines
how many grace points you can have.

=head2 X<stat_Pow>

B<Power>, your magical potential. Influences the strength of spell
effects, and also how much your spell and grace points increase when
leveling up.

=head2 X<stat_Cha>

B<Charisma>, how well you are received by NPCs. Affects buying and selling
prices in shops.

=head2 X<stat_Wc>

B<Weapon Class>, effectiveness of melee/missile attacks. Lower is more
potent. Current weapon, level and Str are some things which effect the
value of Wc. The value of Wc may range between 25 and -72.

=head2 X<stat_Ac>

B<Armour Class>, how protected you are from being hit by any attack. Lower
values are better. Ac is based on your race and is modified by the Dex and
current armour worn. For characters that cannot wear armour, Ac improves
as their level increases.

=head2 X<stat_Dam>

B<Damage>, how much damage your melee/missile attack inflicts. Higher
values indicate a greater amount of damage will be inflicted with each
attack.

=head2 X<stat_Arm>

B<Armour>, how much damage (from physical attacks) will be subtracted from
successful hits made upon you. This value ranges between 0 to 99%. Current
armour worn primarily determines Arm value. This is the same as the
physical resistance.

=head2 X<stat_Spd>

B<Speed>, how fast you can move. The value of speed may range between
nearly 0 ("very slow") to higher than 5 ("lightning fast"). Base speed
is determined from the Dex and modified downward proportionally by the
amount of weight carried which exceeds the Max Carry limit. The armour
worn also sets the upper limit on speed.

=head2 X<stat_WSp>

B<Weapon Speed>, how many attacks you may make per unit of time
(0.120s). Higher values indicate faster attack speed. Current weapon and
Dex effect the value of weapon speed.

=head2 X<npc_message_entry>

Enter a message here that you want to tell the NPC and press B<return>.

Sometimes you have to tell an NPC something you cannot find out during a
normal conversation (such as a password). In those cases you have to use
this text entry. You can also enter responses manually instead of using
the response buttons below.

=head2 X<completer_help>The Command Completer

This is your central interface to send text commands to the server.  To
enter a verbatim command to send to the server, just type the command,
followed by a space, and press return.

Typing the initial letters of words (or just any letters) displays guesses
for commands you might want to use.

You can use the cursor-up and cursor-down keys to select between those
guesses.

B<Right-Click> opens a menu where you can select further options, sich
as redefining key bindings.

=head2 X<charcreation_focus>

Press a key (click on the entry to make sure it has keyboard focus)

=head1 X<ui>User Interface Text Fragments

This section just contains some longer text fragment used by the
Crossfire+ client.

=head2 X<chargen_stats>Character Creation: Stats

B<Stats> are a very important aspect of your character. You can use the
tooltips to learn what each Stat governs.

The stats generated by the server are always sorted from Str (highest) to
Cha (lowest).  They will be modified later by both the race and the class
you choose.

You can create another set of stats, swap two stat values with each other
or accept the stats as shown below and continue.

=head2 X<chargen_race>Character Creation: Race

Look at the B<Messages> window to see a description of this race and
the center of the screen to see how this race looks like (I<below
this dialog window: you may need to move the dialog away and click into
the display area to make it visible>).

You can look at another race, or accept this race (you will cycle back
to this race eventually, so you can take your time making this important
choice.

